Another local film and yet another red carpet preview. This past Thursday, stars of Love Lives Here, a new local love flick, joined the media and fans to be the first to view the film that features South African actor and television personality Lungile Radu and Thando Thabete. The flick, that was shot in Durban, features some of Mzansi’s well known actors such as Zola Nombona, Andile Gumbi, Motlatsi Mafatshe, Nomalanga Shozi and Nkanyiso Bhengu. And as the norm to look exquisite for the carpet, our stars did not disappoint. Lalla Hirayama came out in support of the film looking hot in a black and white mini dress, while Motlatsi Mafatshe together with his lovely wife Millicent Nkangane looked like royalty. The actresses from The Queen, Khanya Mkangisa and the lovely but very shy Zandile Msutwana, were also there. The movie title is a dead give away and depicts how young people manoeuvre the different dynamics of love, relationships and sex. The main character Zinhle Malinga, played by Thabethe, helps narrate a story of a young woman in her quest to find love but who has to deal with the clash of modern and traditional requirements, while also carving a path that works for her. Although we were promised a twist to the overly done love stories, the similarities to the other rom-com Mrs Right Guy released in 2016 could not be missed. In this particular storyline though, the elements of cultural practices steered the ship slightly in a different direction and found its way of stealing the hearts of the gushing viewers. And the use of local music made it easy to relate and to follow the movie, even when tempted to drift off. It was also refreshing to see how daring the brains behind the movie were, with their sex scenes for instance, seemingly too real. They also managed to portray women as strong independent beings. We see this when Zinhle almost breaks a guy’s arm and demands an apology for fondling her friend. The movie is a standard rom-com and worth taking your loved ones to see.