AT 5am on Thursday morning, 10 people lost their lives on the N1 when a Toyota Quantum minibus taxi from Zimbabwe careered off its southbound lane to plough into an oncoming truck near Mokopane, 120km from Polokwane. By 2pm the rumour mill had upped the death toll to 14, but Matome Moremi, spokesperson for the Limpopo transport department, still put the number at 10. A lot happens on the N1 - the stretch of road linking Gauteng to Limpopo - as throngs of Zion Christian Church (ZCC) faithful go on their annual Easter pilgrimage to Moria. Twenty-four hours later, on Good Friday, as the church service in Moria got under way, many jalopies and buses not fit for the trip still lined the side of the freeway, huffing and puffing their way to their destination. Some would not make it at all. At the time of writing, the only fatalities were from the Quantum crash and commuters were headed away from Moria. Moremi said a municipal employee had been hit by a refuse removal truck in the Vhembe district municipality. One thing the Limpopo authorities did well was to put their visible policing strategy into effect. Almost every stretch of the N1 was under the watchful eye of law enforcement personnel. The scene of the horrific crash was still a haunting sight a few hours after it had happened. Packs of chicken pieces carrying the logos of well-known franchises, pies and French fries lay strewn by the side of the road. The delivery truck had burst into flames while the taxi had come off the worse for wear. A road maintenance worker, among the first on the scene to clear the debris and facilitate traffic flow, said there had been no need for ambulance services. “These people left here in mortuary vans,” he said. Despite toll gates at Carousel, Pumulani, Nyl and Kranskop Plaza, the traffic on the N1 is hardly ever slowed down by mandatory breaks. In most places, it is an inviting open road, a temptation for petrolheads to step on the accelerator. The number of tyre punctures were evident from the open boots and bonnets lining the side of the road. For almost every car breakdown there is a sufficient ratio of mechanical help. The bus companies had their own tow trucks in attendance. But the spirit of the Easter church service began at the fuel stations on the way to Moria, like the Shell Ultra City on the hip of Polokwane. There are queues for every available amenity - the toilet, ATM and food. Men were in suits and ties or the khaki church uniform while the women wore all sorts of shawls and young women took group photos on their neon-coloured mobile phones. This reporter learnt later that any phone with a camera is strictly forbidden around ZCC activities. “No, it is not allowed,” said an elder of the church, who did not feel obliged to give reasons. Overnight, the fruit vendors had set up stalls outside the garage, with every type of nut and fruit on offer. A man from Seshego who was hawking an exotic bunch of leaves said it was “special tea”. It sells for R10 a bunch. Every bus company seemed to have hired out its fleet for the pilgrimage, with Putco the most ubiquitous. A Putco bus came to a stop, the sign on the front proclaiming it was carrying a female choir from Randjiesfontein, Centurion. Nkele Mokonyane alighted from another bus from Soshanguve. The 52-year-old mother said she had been raised in the church and had never missed a yearly trek since she was a child. She said she had paid R260 for the bus trip. She and her group burst into an impromptu song. “I have come here every year,” Mokonyane said, “from the time we used to take the Warmbath road. “I was raised in the church, married in the church and had kids in the church,” she said. Zanele Malete had in tow her 16-year-old daughter Oratile, who, she said with pride, did well in school. “This is what the church does to your children. They sail through school and grow up to be great members of society.” With them is Solomon Swafo, the deputy principal at Seaparankwe Primary School in Atteridgeville, Pretoria. Swafo is a giant of a man. “Everything else can wait,” the pedagogue said. He takes the trip to Moria three times in a year. He has a master’s degree, the talkative Mokonyane said before Swafo could say anything more for himself. Morongwa Maake is also a schoolteacher, from Pele Primary School in Soshanguve. She knows no other life but the church, Maake said. Mokonyane quoted Bible verses at the drop of a hat. “We will also pray for the elections, for peace,” she said, before they broke into another rendition of a hymn. Mother of four Malete said “It is a nice church.” She was raised in the Pentecostal church. It is not just big business that does a roaring trade at the time of Moria. Lisbeth Ngobeni, 34, from Mahwelereng sells an exotic fruit whose English name she confesses escapes her. A jug of her wares sells for R12. “I have been doing this for 18 years,” she said. She’s one of those rare business people: “I’m happy.” Her sidekick, Rose Chauke, 30, sells nuts at R10 a scoop. As the N1 snakes into the city of Polokwane it emerges on the other side having become the R17. From then on the road is a slithering snake of buses, bumper to bumper, all the way up to Moria. Both sides of the road are a marketplace of fruit, from sugar cane and avocado to oranges. There’s also cooked food. Along this road weary bodies get off the buses for a song and the famed Mokhukhu dance. It is also here that the sour church elder bans the use of cameras. The Mokhukhu is a spectacle to watch. Outside the entrance to the church, every make of car and bus from all over the country and the neighbouring states, queues to find parking in the vast church grounds. Standing at the entrance,Moremi is understandably pleased. “We have a clean slate so far,” he announced. It has been a seamless journey to church, no doubt.