The gender equality gap in the workplace still prevails because most organisations are not promoting a culture of equality, according to a report called “Getting to Equal 2019” produced by global management consulting and services firm, Accenture. The research shows that in South Africa, employees’ willingness and ability to innovate is nearly six times higher in companies with a robust culture of equality - where everyone can advance and thrive, than in least-equal companies. The findings have particular relevance in our country, where the debate about the role of women, their place in business, politics and other spheres is ongoing, said Ntombi Mhangwani, head of the Women’s Forum and director for integrated marketing and communications at Accenture Africa. “A culture of equality is a powerful driver of an innovation mindset - more than other factors that differentiate organisations, such as industry, country or workforce demographics. “We are not seeing enough gender equality in our workplaces. I think a great example is when Maria Ramos announced that she will be stepping down as Absa chief executive.  “We don’t have enough women at that level. Ramos was one of the very few females who was a board member of a JSE-listed organisation, it tells you that we don’t have enough people. “When you also look at the statistics that are available, you can see that the battle to get women represented at the top is still there,” Mhangwani said. There are a number of reasons why this is happening in South Africa, she added, “we cannot simply demand equality without understanding the social and local cultural elements that exist”. “If you look at South Africa, we have institutions and families that believe a woman’s place is at home, she should be raising and taking care of kids at home. “In some cultures, we find that women are not allowed to get an education. Women are told, ‘this is your place’, and they have to follow those rules.” However, Mhangwani says this is not unique to South Africa but it is also seen across the continent and the globe, which is why gender equality is a global discussion. “It has nuances in local cultural systems and values that have been in place for centuries. In South Africa, I think we’ve begun the journey but I don’t think we are anywhere near the top.” She added that education plays a big role and by educating people, we help them understand that the days of saying ‘boys are better’ or ‘boys deserve more education’ are changing the world over. “We need to embrace that change and recognise it as South Africans. The introduction of outspoken women is something families are going to have to embrace. “We live in a world where we have the technology, back in the days, we didn’t have the technology. “Content is now easily and readily available. We have far more access to information than we did in the past.”