The process of making the audiobook 'And Then Mama Said', admits first-time author of Tumi Morake, evoked strong emotions in her. She says the story is not a biography but a collection of memories of her life. The decision to migrate to the audiobook platform was informed by the comedian’s own enjoyment of audiobooks and the logic behind having her own voice narrate the story. “Look, there is a lot that didn’t go into that book, into the final edit,” she chuckles. “That’s the first time I actually broke down while reading it. I read the book for editing purposes.” Morake says writing the book, which was released in October last year, was informed by the need to silence the noise that surrounded her name and tell her own story. “It was a great way to quiet the noise a little bit. Ever since that big Jacaranda blow-up, I didn’t understand the conversations that were happening about me and around me. It was the right time for me to kinda feel like I am finding my way back to myself again.” She gauges the success of her book based on the feedback she has received. She says she feels as though the book has done more for other people than she expected, from encouraging words from her own family, to fans who have now been able to open up about their own struggles, such as stories of rape. Tumi Morake has released her book 'And Then Mama Said' on audiobook She says, “A lot of people have spoken about how I’ve articulated emotions so well that they cried with me, laughed with me. They feel stronger for their own journeys, which has been really very important for me to hear.” Morake is also known to wear many hats. She is a presenter, a comedian, a columnist and an actress. She says being a performer, whether on stage doing comedy or as an actress, will always be close to her heart. “All I can say is that I’ll be sexy.” She bursts out laughing. “I get to be sexy. I think we’ve seen many Tumis on TV but never the sexy one. Yes, even me, I want to be sexy like other children.” The comedian/actress is a jack-of-all-trades. She is now gearing up to start work on a romcom in June. The audiobook is available for download via Audible, Amazon.com’s audiobook downloading site.