Johannesburg - Johannesburg residents have been left livid in many suburbs as the city has been rocked by blackouts after four hours of load shedding. Officials from Johannesburg’s City Power have been inundated with calls since Friday as they struggled to restore power to some of the affected suburbs. On Saturday morning, City Power said there had been an explosion at the Brynorth Substation, which affected the Bryanston, Fourways and Douglasdale areas. On Friday afternoon in Parkhurst, the area was rocked with a 7 hour blackout after lights failed to come back after the scheduled 4.30pm load shedding period. City Power confirmed there was a fault in that area too. And on Saturday morning, Bryanston residents flooded social media with complaints. Taking to Twitter, Joburg City Power said “there was an explosion in the Brynorth Substation which affects power supply in Morningside, khanyisa and surroundings, Operators are currently onsite”. #Update #BrynorthOutage There was an Explosion in the Brynorth Substation which affects power supply in Morningside, khanyisa and surroundings, Operators are currently onsite^GR pic.twitter.com/ZlQAp1IJKQ #BrynorthOutage Our technicians are currently on site and ETR will only be given after technicians have determined the extent of the damage^GR pic.twitter.com/5jPwiuzSV5 #UPDATE:Ridge, Houghton distributor tripped,affecting Parktown and surrounding. Technical team on https://t.co/0dJsld97aA ETR at the moment and we apologise for any inconvenience caused.^LP UPDATE: City power operators are still on site busy with repair. We apologize for inconvenience cause by the outage.^JM https://t.co/NS2EoGvCEK City Power are swamped with calls and are on skeleton staff!https://t.co/rbDx0qnjGZ UPDATE:Distributor supplying Halfway Gardens Ext,Halfway House,Vorna Valley, EXT.21&56 tripped.Technicians have been allocated to work on restoration.We apologise for inconvenience caused.^LP #Update Distributor supplying Florida and Florida Extensions tripped, technicians are onsite busy with restorations^GR #Update #GreenstoneOutage There is a tripped device affecting power supply in Greenstone and surroundings, technicians are dispatched to work on power restorations^GR #Update Distributor supplying Wynberg and Bramley Park tripped, technicians are dispatched to work on power restorations^GR ANGER City power Bryanston East 2B power came up and 10 minutes later tripped again, still down We've been asking you for an update on Bryanston 2B for hours and you blatantly ignore everyone. Do you have some form of issue with this area that you cannot inform people as to what's going on???? Why or why did i move to this forsaken Bryanston ??? BRYANSTON Power Outage UpdateMajor explosion at the BryNorth substation. This is not good news and is just one of the dramas that load shedding brings with it. Blame who you like, but there is no new dawn. Hold tight ⚡️ @CityPowerJhb Bryanston 2B out again? Please advise what in the hell is going on? Bryanston East. Somebody forgot the “on” button again? Bryanston still has no power. pic.twitter.com/aot6InJjyq  