Nigerian superstar Ice Prince, real name Panshak Henry Zamani, has joined the many African celebrities who have written books about their lives and experiences. The 32-year-old, who hails from a place called Jos in Nigeria, rose to fame after the release of his song Oleku, and since then he has won various awards, including the coveted Black Entertainment Television (BET) award in 2013, raising his star even higher across the globe. Ice Prince launched his memoir, The Nigerian Dream, in Sandton this past Tuesday and although he runs a tight ship, his party did not meet the standards expected of someone of his standing. The blame should be placed squarely on the organisers. First, the area reserved for the launch was too small and too tight to accommodate the throngs of guests who came out in support of the artist. Seats were limited and also the last-minute setting up of a stage, among other boo-boos, almost spoilt the fun. Amid the chaos, we caught a glimpse of local comedian Tol Ass Mo rushing off even before the event started. Those who stuck it out were singer Karabo Mogane and businessman Lebo Gunguluza. The one good thing about the chaotic night was interacting with the artist himself, who took us through the book, which took him four years to complete. “I am a rose that grew from concrete and I believe my story is one that can inspire anyone in the world. I believe that I am a product of the Nigerian dream and a product of Africa,” said the star in a one-on-one interview with Sunday Independent. “My story is that of a young man who dropped out of school because he couldn’t afford tuition. “But that didn’t end my story, as music came along and changed my life. I am now able to live a true dream of a superstar out here in Africa. This is a story of triumph, how I moved from a community that had zero opportunities to the Hollywood of Nigeria, Lagos, fighting my way up because I believed I had what it took.” Among the many stories he tells are those about the menial jobs he had to do to survive, the death of his mother, parenthood, being inspired by love and spirituality. “The most difficult part was opening up, but it has been beneficial. And that is what I am most proud of, how authentic and true this book is, and hence I believe it will inspire my generation too,” he said. An avid reader himself, he said, “I chose to write a physical book in this digital age because I still believe in the culture of reading. “With this book, I challenge other rappers, especially in South Africa - AKA, Nasty C, Casper Nyovest and the rest - to tell Africa the Johannesburg story as well as the story of other parts of Mzansi.” Ice Prince recently released a single featuring Mr Eazi (watch below) and said more music is to follow.  