The annual Feather Awards spectacular lived up to its hype and brought Johannesburg to a halt last Thursday. Celebrities, fashionistas, influencers, personalities and even government dignitaries came out in their numbers to celebrate the 11th installment of the awards ceremony that has been flying the LGBTIQ+ flag high. In true Feathers style, hosts Rami Chuene, Moshe Ndiki and Pabi Moloi ascended the stage in a dramatic way, singing Aretha Franklin’s Respect and giving a rather dynamic performance with some shaking and twerking from the effervescent Ndiki. Their showcase came right after a powerful opening song from The Soil’s Buhlebendalo Mda, who delivered a breathtaking performance that was also a prayer and tribute to women who died at the hands of men and other hate-crimes that have gripped Mzansi. Dressed in red, the songstress came on stage with burning incense to cleanse the air and brought the entire room to a standstill. Following Mda’s performance was a jam-packed line-up with other artists rocking the stage such as Busiswa, a duo performance by Langa Mavuso and Berita and also a noteworthy rendition of Something Inside so Strong by Mzansi Gay Choir.     Coming to the main reason for the gathering, various personalities were awarded the coveted gong under 20 categories, of which recipients included the prestigious Simon Nkoli Award bestowed on the recently retired Justice Edwin Cameron for his HIV/Aids and gay-rights activism work during his period serving the judiciary.     Other personalities who walked off with the glittery rose-gold award were designer extraordinaire Rich Mnisi, who was named Hunk of the Year, newlyweds Dineo (Moeketsi) Langa and Solo were rewarded with the Cutest Couple prize, while yummy-mummy Loot Love took home the best-styled individual award. On the sports front, Banyana Banyana’s Thembi Kgatlana scooped the Sports Personality of the Year award, while Twitter’s favourite doctor, Dr Sindi van Zyl, was awarded the Social Media Personality of the Year award. Speaking of the journey and success of the ceremony, Feathers co-founder Thami Kotlolo said, “This year’s event demonstrated the importance of establishing and maintaining a voice that represents the LGBTIQ+ community.” The Sunday Independent