A midweek summer pool party in sizzling hot Johannesburg is exactly what Mzansi’s hottest people needed to cool off. The soiree on Wednesday brought the who’s who of Mzansi together to celebrate one of Nestlé’s innovations, to sip iced coffee in style. From the afternoon right into the evening, guests showed off their stylish interpretations of the Summer Whites party theme while being entertained by DJ Kimmy K, songstress Lady Zamar and internationally celebrated star Sho Madjozi, who brought the house down. Comedian Donovan Goliath kept everyone in stitches with his off-the-cuff jokes. While the iced coffee brought everyone together at the posh secret location in Sandton, the day was all about fashion, entertainment and catching up just before everyone gets caught up in wrapping up the year. A mini-club scene was set out for guests to bust some latest moves, giving meaning to what it meant for them to celebrate summer out in the sun. Songstress Lady Zamar performing at the midweek summer pool party launch. PIC: Supplied Somizi Mhlongo, Sipho Masebe and Mohale Motaung out at the midweek chillas. PIC: Supplied Guests were later moved to the pool area which was decorated in brighter and upbeat colours so they could watch Sho Madjozi, up close as she channelled her energy and rhythm on stage, and brought the house down. Judging by the celebrities who honoured the invitation, the party was definitely one of the hottest in the 2019 social calendar. Among those present were newly weds Somizi Mhlongo and Mohale Motaung; Lerato Kganyago - who also took to the decks as one of the party’s DJs; singer Tamara Dey and her fashionable looking friend Raymond Trueman as well as BFFs Mampho Brescia and Terry Pheto. Kefilwe Mabote stole the show in her tailored three-piece suit with gold detail while Tshepi Vundla’s red hair gave her all white outfit an extra kick and ensured that she stood out from the rest. At the end of it all, the entire gathering was definitely one to remember, dancing under the stars - away from the hustle and bustle of Johannesburg. The Sunday Independent