Johannesburg - A Johannesburg doctor has launched a funding drive for suspended Eyewitness News journalist Barry Bateman, who had a month’s salary docked after he was caught swearing at EFF leader Julius Malema with a derogatory term after an impromptu press conference in September. At the time of the incident, Bateman, who had been amongst a group of journalists interviewing Malema in Pretoria, was caught by television cameras referring to Malema as a p**s as the EFF leader walked away after addressing members of the media. He was suspended by EWN soon after, who apologised for the incident. But this week, Bateman publicly apologised to Malema in a letter and accepted the actions instituted by his bosses at Primedia, which owns EWN. Dr Jonathan Witt, who is also a co-host on Renegade Sport, launched the unorthodox 'crowdfund' on Tuesday after expressing disagreement with Bateman having his salary docked. The funds are donated straight into Bateman's bank account and not through a crowdfunding facility. Witt tweeted on Tuesday: “So it appears as if EWN forced an apology out of Barry Bateman, they dare not piss off their friends in the EFF. An apology to a bunch of fascists is one thing, suspending a top journalist who has a family to support without pay is another entirely. Sad state of affairs”. After requests for funding details from his followers, he returned to tweet: “My friend, and journalist, @barrybateman has been suspended without pay following an incident last month for which he has apologised. If you’re able to help him make ends meet this month please consider making a donation,” he tweeted, along with the banking details. Bateman himself, confirmed the account listed in the tweeted was his. My friend, and journalist, @barrybateman has been suspended without pay following an incident last month for which he has apologised. If you’re able to help him make ends meet this month please consider making a donation. FNB Savings accountAcc: 6217 3613 714Branch: 250 655 